Requires windows 3.11 or higher and FSFS 

Instructions for using wxadv.exe and wxadv2.exe

- Included in the zip file are the following files.

wxadv.exe  - Real weather adventure generator
wxadv2.exe - Real weather adventure generator for FSFS ATC custom module
stnlist.txt - A text file that is read to get the station coordinates
all.rwx - A sample weather file
inc.txt - A sample listing of stations to include in the adventure
real_wx.txt - A sample adventure program
wxadv.txt - This file

Installation
	Create a directory c:\tmprwx and unzip the zip file in this directory, 
	or copy all unzipped files to this directory.  All filenames are 
	hardcoded and the directory must be c:\tmprwx.  If anyone with 
	Turbo C++ expeirence would like to do a user interface, I will gladly 
	send you the source code for the program.  I am starting to travel 
	again, and will not have time to work on it for some time.  I find 
	it very enjoyable to fly through varying weather, therefore I thought 
	I would make it available now to anyone else who was interested.  The 
	program is manual to use, but not too dificult if you are familar with 
	dos and Windows.  
        Create an icon in windows that runs the program c:\tmprwx\wxadv.exe,
        and one that runs the program c:\tmprwx\wxadv2.exe
	Make the working directory c:\tmprwx.  See windows help under 
	"icons, creating" if you are unfamiliar with how to do this.



The Real Weather Data
wxadv uses weather data that can be pulled from Curt Olson's weather page.
The address for the weather data is 
http://www.me.umn.edu/home/clolson/weather/new-wx.html

The weather is divided into sections. All weather for the U.S. and Canada 
is also avilable from one file. The file all.rwx is a file that was downloaded 
from the web page.  I suggest overlaying all.rwx with which ever section you 
wish to fly in.  Sometimes its easier just to download all weather.  This is 
the starting point. You now have a file which is formatted. It must be called 
all.rwx and reside in the c:\tmprwx directory.



The station list
I have included stnlist.txt.  If more stations are added to Curt's weather 
page a new station list will also have to be downloaded.  The station list at
Curts Web page is no longer formatted with ":"'s, so I suggest you have to use
one in the zip file.  It must be called stnlist.txt and
reside in the c:\tmprwx directory.  You can edit it to add more stations.


Your Station List
	I have included a sample file inc.txt.  This is a file that you edit
	using either notepad in windows or edit in dos, enter each of the 
	station ID's you will be flying over.  These are not always the 
	VOR id's.  If you are looking for a particular city, I suggest you 
	search the city name in stnlist.txt to find the station id.
	Edit the inc.txt file by entering the 3 letter id followed by the  
	<enter> key for each station you will be flying over.  Try to limit 
	to 40 or less stations.  You really wont need this many though. 
	At least I dont.


Generating the adventure
        After you have all the setup completed, click the icon you have 
        created in windows.  If you want to generate a stand alone program,
        click the wxadv icon, if you want and FSFS Custom module, click the
        wxadv2 icon.  The program will then translate the all.rwx
	file into an adventure file called real_wx.txt. Some of the data 
	in all.rwx seem to be keyed manually, and typing errors do occur.  
	If the program takes an error, copy the data for the stations that 
	you want to fly over from all.rwx to another file.  Then rename that 
	file to all.rwx and run the program again.  If you are still having 
	problems,  Remove the station in the inc.txt file that appears after 
	the last station that was processed and try again. 


Compiling the "STAND ALONE ADVENTURE"
	This is the easy part.  After you have added any custom modules
	to real_wx.txt, copy real_wx.txt to your fs51 \adv subdirectory.  
	Change to the \adv subdirectory and type aplc real_wx.  An adventure 
	file called real_wx.adv will be created.  You will get a program too 
	long error if you selected too many stations.


Runing the "STAND ALONE ADVENTURE" 
	Once in FS51 goto the adventure option and select the real_wx 
	adventure.  The weather for the station you are closest too will 
	be loaded.  As you fly closer to other stations, their weather will 
	load automatically.  To determine which station is loaded, go to the 
	weather menu and click on global.  You should see another area with 
	the name sssWX where sss is the station id.


For FSFS ATC custom modules
        Real weather for FSFS ATC is now available with wxadv2.exe.
This program is almost the same as wxadv.exe with a few exceptions.
wxadv2.exe generates the real_wx.txt file as a custom module that can be
included in an FSFS ATC adventure. Instead of compiling real_wx.txt as a
stand alone adventure, copy it to your flightshop directory.  When you select
the option to upload the flight plan, select real_wx.txt as a custom module.
Select clear weather when uploading, or the weather may be changed by the
FSFS ATC flight generator.

Running the FSFS ATC module
        The real weather will update after you are told to contact the tower.
This is when the custom modules run for the first time.  Becuase FSFS ATC
decides the departing runway without looking at the real weather, you may
be assigned to a runway with dangerous tail winds.  If this is the case,
you can manually change the wether through the world menu.  Select weather,
then hit the "H" key. You will see the overlay weather area.  Select it, and
then select winds.  Adjust the surface wind direction as needed.
        The real weather stops updating after approach contact is made.  This
is because surface winds are determined by FSFS ATC before landing.  The surface
winds at the arrival airport may not match the runway assigned for landing.
If this is the case, follow the steps above for changing the wind direction
after contacting approach.  You will be close to the approaching airport,
so no further updates will be required.  The surface wind layer will be
deleted  by FSFS ATC, but adjust the next wind layer to a suitable direction
for landing at the vectored runway.  (FSFS ATC determines the arrival runway
when the adventure is uploaded to FS.  There is no way around this currently)
        Weather reports (ctrl-W) will report the current weather.  The cloud
layer reported will be the lowest layer.


A Note about program length
        I have had program too large errors when compiling adventures with
many waypoints. Adding the real weather custom module will increase the size
of the file further.  If you get this error, try reducing the number of waypoints
and/or weather stations.

Changing the approach distance
        I have had a problem up to now with the 9 mile pattern with heavies.
A way to change this is to add the program STS.ZIP from ftp.iup.edu.  This
program will leave the source code in the FLTSHOP directory. Edit the source
code by searching for 3 lines.
        1) Search for "good hdg", and change the ># to (I suggest 15 NM)
        2) Search for "pattern area", and change the <=# to (I suggest 15)
        3) Search for "patter instruct", and change the ># to (I suggest 15)
        This will give you 15 NM to line up with the runway.



There are many formats of weather data, and although Curt has done alot 
of work on the algorithms to process the weather formats, you never know 
what kind of data you may get.  If you cannot absolutely get up and running, 
drop me an email at j4cwheel@aol.com. Please send a copy of your all.rwx and 
inc.txt.  I will try to figure out what data is bad.  I may not get back to 
you for a while however.  

I hope some people will get some use out of this.  
I have really enjoyed having dynamic weather thanks to Curt and his 
real weather page. Curt really wrote the heart of the program.  All I 
had to do was translate it into FSFS adventure language. 

Also thanks to my wife Cindy for her patience while I practiced my 
C programming.

This is freeware to anyone who wants it, but please don't use it for profit. 
Also, please do not upload to compuserve.  Source code is available in 
tubro C++ if you want it.

P.S. - I know the coding methodology isnt the greatest, but I wanted to get
it up and running as soon as I could with the time I had.
I plead quilty to being a bad speller also.


Have Fun - Jeff Wheeler
